This could not wait till morning. The craving came on so sudden and intense that resisting never even crossed her mind. For some reason Claudia needed fudge. Maybe it was hormones. Maybe it was the fact that she finally had an appetite. But she needed fudge. Not the kind she usually made this time of year, melting chocolate chips in the microwave. Claudia needed the heavy, silky fudge her grandma used to make—the kind you made in a saucepan with a candy thermometer.

Did you need a double broiler? Claudia wasn’t sure anymore. She closed her eyes and tried to picture it, her mom at the stove, swirling a big wooden spoon, round and round continuously like the second hand on a clock (can’t let it scorch) stirring and lifting with such deft motion.

But Claudia could only observe this memory from outside the pan, from where she’d sat at the counter with a coloring book, or later on, a workbook or laptop. She did not know whether the pan contained a double broiler.

It was too late to call—10pm in Los Angeles and midnight in Sugar Run. Mom went to bed reliably at nine.

Google would know, Claudia consoled herself. She typed “fudge recipe” into the little white box and scrolled through too many microwaved chocolate chip recipes before typing “fudge that you make with a candy thermometer.” This was better. Condensed milk sounded familiar, but the more she read, the more Claudia doubted her own memory. Condensed milk or evaporated? Had it been sugar and cocoa powder, or some baker’s chocolate? There were a hundred variations.

She was pretty sure that there was vanilla extract (that, she knew, was her family’s power ingredient), and she was certain that all of these variables would matter when it came to getting the exact flavor and consistency she craved—something you could hold in your mouth savor as it slowly melted away. Like a good memory. The supple kind of fudge that wrinkled and cracked like leather. If she could lose herself in a mouthful, maybe it would smooth over the terrible week.

She tried to concentrate: Grandma Nora’s kitchen. Yellow linoleum, dark brown cabinets with old brass knobs in the shapes of flowers. Claudia had usually been there when Grandma made her fudge. With the cousins, decorating felt ornaments  with puff paints, out of the way. Now she tried to reverse-engineer the smells. Butter. Vanilla.

By the time she was old enough to actually help, Claudia had found other interests—speech tournaments, volunteer projects, study groups. In the back of her mind, maybe Claudia had always thought there’d be more time.

Grandma Nora had stopped cooking after the stroke. Mom tried the fudge for a while, but lost momentum after a few years, after the cousins stopped gathering together for Christmas. After it turned out that Grandma was the sugar or condensed milk or whatever it was that held everyone together.

Claudia tried to remember. It was a family recipe—the kind that should never need to be written down. It was written in their mitochondrial DNA, Claudia suspected—the pieces of molecular coding passed unaltered from mother to daughter every generation. Moms and grandmas and daughters had been making this fudge since at least the 1800s, probably on temperamental stoves fueled by wood or coal.

“I remember when my Grandma Ira would make this fudge…” Grandma Nora would say sometimes, her brown eyes sucking up all of the light in the room and spinning it into something that sparkled in her mind.

Claudia pictured them, a chain of women living close together, gathering in dowdy blue-checkered kitchens, around wood block counters and formica-topped bars to make fudge and rum cakes and fingerprint cookies. And here she was, two time zones away, Googling recipes. Asking a computer.

Claudia had always considered herself a mold breaker, and had always considered that a good thing. Now, standing alone in her kitchen with cream-colored porcelain tile floor and sleek bar pulls on the cherry cabinets, she just felt broken. She was going to be the one to break this tradition.

Mom would remember. She could call in the morning. But the craving was so deep and immediate that the thought of waiting barely passed through Claudia’s mind. That need consumed her as she rifled through her walk-in pantry. Sugar. Cocoa powder. Vanilla.

She had learned to cook, but always new recipes, her own discoveries. Claudia recalled her dad’s perplexed eyebrows at Thanksgiving. “Why would you want to put apples in the stuffing?”

Why not? To be different. To take things up a notch. Back last month, when being different didn’t quite mean being separate. Now the stakes had changed, and all Claudia wanted was a family recipe.

She had learned to cook, but never fudge. How many Christmases had she not even missed it, distracted by office parties and ski trips and neighborhood cookie exchanges in other people’s European-inspired kitchens, where bakers showcased neatly flooded royal icing and sugar crystals that sparkled like snow on festive platters from Target and Michael's, while sipping Cabernet from wide-brimmed glasses?

She decided to go with milk and butter, and no double broiler, recklessly mixing and matching from online recipes, guided by flashes of light and scent memory.

In a large and heavy saucepan, stir together the first three ingredients, then stir in milk, her phone screen instructed in frigid Helvetica. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a full rolling boil. Boil to 234 degrees F or until syrup, when dropped in very cold water, forms a soft ball which flattens when removed from water.

Why had she not remembered before, her grandma keeping a glass of ice water by the stove? The way she’d watch the fudge mixture (what was the sign she was looking for?), dropping just a bit of mixture in the glass, reaching in for it with her hand. The memory hit Claudia like a wave. That had been the shocking part—Grandma Nora sticking her hand in the water, after all of her admonishments at the dinner table. Keep your hands out of your water…

“It’s okay; it’s different,” Grandma had said. Was it with an actual wink? Or had that wink only been in her voice? “Table rules don’t apply in the kitchen.” And she had pressed the ball of fudge in her fingers and given it to Claudia to sample. Claudia, out of all the cousins, because she was the one who wandered into the kitchen.

Why had it taken an internet recipe to jog this memory? Maybe because Mom used a candy thermometer. She didn’t have Grandma’s eyeballing abilities. She relied on science, not art, Claudia thought as she pulled a long bar handle and searched the gadget drawer for her own candy thermometer. It had been a wedding gift, and she couldn’t remember using it.

For most things, boiling was boiling. You looked for the bubbles. Not here. Somehow it made a difference. She could remember mom throwing out a batch of fudge once, slinging it with the wooden spoon from the pan into the trash can with a vehemence that had kept Claudia from asking what’s the matter.

Claudia watched her ingredients pool and melt into a sticky liquid. The scent of warm sugar and cream melted something inside of her, and her stream of consciousness swelled with a glut of melted memory run-off. It ran wild and overflowed the banks of Claudia’s self-control as images flooded her mind unbidden: Grandma Nora, her right hand withered and hanging useless at her side; Mom flinging grainy fudge into the trash; the doctor’s office, the empty black screen.

She felt tears well in her eyes and ooze like blood. I’m leaking, Claudia thought, but still she stirred, consistent like the second hand on a clock. She blinked her eyes, clearing the opaque wall of tears that obscured the numbers on the candy thermometer. 157.

It would thicken, Claudia assured herself. She had a Viking range. If her foremothers could do this on a wood-burning stove, she could do it on a Viking range. Or had it not been the fire at all—the secret to their success? Maybe it was the consistency of the hands. Maybe it was having someone there to stir for you while you greased the pan or grabbed the butter.

Empty kitchen notwithstanding, Claudia would master the fudge and join her foremothers, creators of fudge. She would extend her wooden spoon across space and time and they would grab on and welcome her, tell her never mind, you’re one of us. All of those women, all those years, different personalities joined by fudge. Imagine! Fudge and daughters.

No. They would not welcome Claudia. She was not a good daughter. She had no daughter of her own.

Sometimes you could follow all the directions and things still didn’t turn out. Claudia had choked down lentils, kale, eggs, fighting the nausea that formed a tight lump in her throat. She needed something sweet. So she stirred, letting tears leak like blood.

The thermometer climbed, the red mercury stretching and blooming. 210, 217. Then what? Why hadn’t she read ahead? And from which recipe? Claudia didn’t want to stop stirring for long enough to check. She didn’t want the fudge to burn and crumble. She was already leaking; she couldn’t afford to crumble.

The mercury drifted up to 225 and Claudia gripped her wooden spoon. She didn’t want to do this, but she had a wooden spoon and the craving was strong. She needed this fudge, needed to taste the thick, buttery chocolate, but mostly she needed it to turn out. She needed a win. She needed that connection.

She had a wooden spoon. She picked up her phone and extended her spoon across space and time. Would anyone grab the other end? It was 10:58 in Los Angeles and 12:58 in Sugar Run.

Claudia stirred as she listened to the hollow dial tone. One ring, two, three.

“Hello,” a heavy voice answered.

“Mom, what do I do when the fudge gets to 234 degrees?” Claudia asked in a rush.

She heard a cough in response, then silence. Finally, “You stop. You take it off the heat. Add your butter and vanilla and let it cool without touching it.” It was a monotone recitation, a steady stream. Mom could do this in her sleep. Literally.

“Okay, thanks,” Claudia said with a sniff that she hoped was not audible on the other end of her call. “Sorry. You can go back to sleep now.”

“No, I can’t.” Mom’s voice was coming to life now, with more highs and lows animating her words. “It’s late. Are you okay?”

The thermometer drooped, wilting down from its peak. Claudia could feel her stomach sinking, almost like the nausea that had dissipated days ago. Sometimes she could hold it in; sometimes she could not.

This time she could not. The words spilled out, bitter and acidic like bile. “I lost the baby.”

Silence, and then, “That hurts. I’m sorry, Honey.”

“Yeah,” Claudia sighed. “Sorry. I know you were looking forward to being a grandma—”

“No, it’s not about that,” Mom interrupted. “I just mean… I remember.”

The realization dawned on Claudia slowly as the thermometer drooped down to 225. “You?”

“Three.” Mom said. “It happens. If you only knew.”

Claudia wondered how many invisible links there were in the chain of her foremothers. She wondered at the invisible link that clipped her into this chain. Kitchens and fudge and daughters, and the daughters and sons that might have been. Crowded kitchens, nonetheless—people to share the bitter and sweet family recipes.

It was 11:28 in Los Angeles and 1:28 in Sugar Run, but Claudia kept Mom on the phone until the candy thermometer dropped to 110 degrees. Then she picked up the wooden spoon and started to stir again.

It was always Amrak’s job to deal with the birds afterwards, and he had always hated it. Every Temple day after the service he would have to wait for the worshippers to leave, then hang around while Father and the other priests finished up. As soon as they were gone the work began – mopping up the spilt blood, gathering the dirty robes into a basket to take outside to the waiting washerwomen, piling up the silver bowls to carry to the kitchen to be cleaned. Amrak had asked his father many times if he could rather wash the bowls, sweep the step outside, clean out the censers – anything but gather the broken bodies of the doves, but his request was always refused. “Do what I tell you, son,” Father always said. “No questions.”

But Amrak had questions; he always had. Even though his curiosity had been soundly discouraged and he had mostly stopped asking, he had not lost it. He wanted to know why the poor birds had to die, their throats slit over the silver bowls before the blood was poured over the heads of the people during cleansings, weddings and dedications. He had experienced it himself during his cleansing ceremony when he had turned thirteen, like every other boy in Kalathan. Blood to sully, blood to purge. Blood to defile, blood to cleanse. He remembered it as if it was yesterday, even though it was already four years ago. He had been shocked that day by how warm the blood had been, and glad that as it had flowed over his face it had hidden his tears.

“You’re too sensitive, Amrak,” said his friend Mishik, walking past him with his polishing cloth as he crouched down over the pile of little bodies on the floor. “They’re just birds.”

“Just birds,” Amrak repeated softly, picking one up by a wing. They were always cold by the time the service ended and he had to begin his work. He placed it gently into the sack he had brought, then picked up the next one. There had been five coming-of-age cleansings today, and two devilclaw purgings and a wedding the day before. Two doves for each, which meant sixteen little creatures lying dead on the tiled floor, sixteen still hearts in the sack, ready for the rubbish pile and then the fire. When he was done he placed the sack out of the way, fetched the broom to sweep up the feathers, then picked up the mop which stood against the wooden bucket. It only took ten minutes, to restore the floor to its previous shine, for the water in the bucket to turn from clear to gritty, muddy brown with the blood and droppings.

“Almost done,” said Mishik, as he put down the bronze censer he had just polished and picked up the last one. “All ready to carry next week’s prayers up to heaven!”

“If the blood cleanses us,” Amrak said, half to Mishik, half to himself as he straightened his back, “then where do the sins go?”

“What?” Mishik shook his head. “They don't go anywhere. The blood … dissolves them.”

“Then the sins are still in the blood,” said Amrak. “They flow into the drains, then into the river. The river, and the sea, must be teeming with sins by now.”

“No, no,” Mishik said. “Lands, you have strange thoughts, Amrak! You’ve got it all wrong. It’s a spiritual thing.”

“If it’s spiritual, why do we need the blood then? Can't we just ask God to cleanse us, without breeding birds that we only kill?”

Mishik replaced the last censer, balling up the dirty cloth. “Wait for next year when we begin our training,” he said. “You can ask the fatirs about that. I don't know enough to answer you.”

Amrak picked up the bucket and broom, Mishik the mop. The two boys made their way towards the kitchen behind the building. “Are you excited about it?” Amrak asked.

“About what?”

“The training. All of it. Becoming a priest.”

Mishik looked confused. “Not really. It’s going to be hard work. But it’s a good living and I don't know what else I would do.”

“I don't mind hard work,” said Amrak.

“But?” Mishik peered at him as they set down their burdens and faced each other.

“I don't want to shave my head. And I'm not sure I want to be a priest at all.” It felt almost dangerous to say it.

Mishik gave a low whistle. “I want to be there when you tell that to your father,” he said. “Really, Amrak. How many generations of your family have been priests? I doubt you could even count!”

Amrak didn't answer. It was laughable, he had to agree, to think that he could choose another path for his life. His father was so proud of their family, proud of his position, proud to be a Kalathene, most of all proud to be a priest of the Temple. He walked around the town in his long red robe, his shaved head held high, proud of his dutiful wife, his obedient sons, his devout, co-operative daughters. He didn't know that Amrak shuddered every time a bird was killed, every time he smelled the incense, every time he heard the chanting. He didn't know that his son’s favourite day of the week was the day after Temple day, because it meant there were six whole days until the next one. He didn't know that when his son closed his eyes to chant the prayers, he felt nothing, that when he looked up at the great curly spire of the Temple looming above the City he found himself daydreaming about what life would be like if it was not there at all.

He and Mishik removed their aprons and washed their hands, then exited the back door of the Temple into the alley, Amrak carrying the sack. It had snowed earlier, and now the wind blew flurries of it up and down the alley.

“Well, see you tomorrow I suppose,” Mishik said, pulling on his gloves and shoving his hat as far down on his head as he could. “Can you believe it’s our last week of school?”

“Training will be worse than school,” Amrak said, as he turned up the collar of his thick fur-edged coat against the cold wind and wrapped his scarf around his head.

“Yes, but we will be studying with the men, not the boys!” Mishik said. “Will you shave your head soon? My father says it’s better to do it now rather than just before we begin.”

“Probably,” Amrak said. Father had said, that morning, that he thought they should do it tonight.

The boys parted, Mishik heading back to his home for dinner, Amrak heading in the opposite direction to take the sack, as he always did, to one of the wagon beds that was always parked in the same place near the Temple. He would fling the sack onto the pile of whatever waste was already there, and in the morning someone would arrive to haul the load off to the furnaces outside the City. The little birds would fly away then, he supposed, as the ash rose into the sky.

When he was finally free of the sack he turned around, thinking about the meal that waited for him at home, keeping warm by the stove. Another Temple day done.

He heard a noise then, a clattering as if something had fallen off the wagon. He turned around, startled. He had thought that he was alone in the alley. He crouched down to see if he could see if anything lay on the ground, and saw a flash of movement.

“Hey!” he called. “Who’s there?”

No answer. He stepped closer. “Who’s there?”

“No one!” called a voice. A boy’s voice, clear and confident.

Amrak stood still, unsure whether to laugh or be insulted. “What are you doing?” he asked. “That’s just rubbish in there!”

He stared for a moment at the wagon. Nothing moved. Then suddenly there was another crashing sound, and the boy stepped out from behind the wagon, holding up Amrak’s sack. He was small, at least a head shorter than Amrak, a good few years younger.

“Hey!” he said again. “That’s my sack!”

“You threw it away,” said the boy, shrugging. He looked cold, Amrak thought, his coat thin and unlined, only a too-big woolen hat on his head. His boots looked ancient, the tops peeling away from the soles. “So you clearly don't want it!”

Amrak stood still, wondering how to answer.

“Rubbish to you, dinner to me!” said the boy.

“But you can’t eat those!” Amrak was appalled.

“Oh, I can!” said the boy. “It’s quite easy. I pull out the feathers, cut out the insides and roast them. They’re not more than a few bites each but I’m not complaining.” Was he laughing? He had a wide grin, scruffy dark hair, and a rather blue face.

“But … those are Temple birds,” Amrak said.

The boy shrugged again. “Either they get roasted in the furnace and turned to black for nothing, my friend, or they serve a greater purpose by feeding me and my friends.”

Amrak took a few steps closer, wondering if the boy would run away. “Do you do this … often?”

“Most Temple days. I watch for you whenever you come out of that door. I’ve grown fond of your face lately, to be honest. You represent meat, glorious meat!” The boy held out his arms, the sack swinging wildly from one hand, and grinned widely.

Amrak could not help it. He smiled back.

An hour later, Amrak was sitting on an upturned wooden crate in another alley, warming his hands over the little fire the boy had made in a half-broken old brazier. He knew his parents would be wondering where he was, but he pushed that thought aside and hoped they would just think he had gone to Mishik’s house as he had once or twice before. He did not quite understand why he had not just turned around and left, why he had found himself asking the boy’s name and then following him here. It had been an impulse, he thought, as he watched him pluck out feathers and hack at the doves’ chests with a blunt-looking knife, something rebellious, and in the moment he had wanted nothing more than to do something different, to follow this odd boy off into the cold to watch him turn the bodies of the sacrificial doves into his lunch. His name was Kashrik, it turned out, and he was thirteen.

“Don’t you have a home?” Amrak asked.

Kashrik shrugged. “Not really,” he said.

“Why not?”

Kashrik looked up from his hacking. “You work at the Temple, don't you?”

“My father is a priest,” Amrak said.

“So you will be too?”

Amrak looked down. “That’s the plan.”

“Then I can’t tell you why.”

“What’s being a priest got to do with why you don't have a home?”

“If I tell you, you might haul me off to your father. Instead of dove meat in my stomach, I’ll have dove blood on my head.”

“Oh,” Amrak said, starting to understand. “You’re …” He could not say it.

The boy put down his knife and pulled up his left sleeve. “There you go,” he said, showing Amrak the inked mark on the inside of his wrist. “I’m a devilclaw. I had a home but my father kicked me out last year. Sometimes I go to the back door and my mother gives me some bread, but most of the time I fend for myself.”

“Where do you sleep?”

Kashrik looked at him sideways. “Somewhere warm. There are people in the City who do not share the Temple’s opinion of people like me. Kind people. I haven’t frozen yet.”

Amrak took a breath, then blew it out again, watching as it condensed into mist in front of him. The boy picked up the knife again, with his left hand of course. Amrak wondered how he had not noticed it before. The Devil’s Claw. This pleasant-faced friendly boy was cursed, according to the Temple, an anomaly, a catalyst of bad luck. His left hand now, cutting away at the bird, looked so wrong, so strange, as if Amrak was watching himself in a mirror.

“Sorry,” he said. It was all he could think of to say. “That’s terrible.”

Kashrik laughed. “Don’t be sorry!” he said. “Sympathising with me will bring you bad luck, remember. Eating with me …” He grimaced, then smiled. “Probably worse. Perhaps you will wake up tomorrow covered in leprosy.”

He reached down to the ground to pick up a blackened sharp stick which he thrust through the bloody little body of the dove, then handed it to Amrak. “You hold it over the fire,” he said, “while I do the others.”

He looked up, the smile on his face so artless and genuine that Amrak did not know what to say. The flames leapt up, singeing the meat, the smell that rose up into the air surprisingly pleasant.

“I don't want to be a priest,” he said, partly to Kashrik, partly to himself. “I hate the Temple.”

Kashrik looked up in surprise.

“I hate the blood and the chanting, all of it. I love my father but I can't think of any other priest that I trust. I want to be a soldier or a farmer or a blacksmith – anything but a priest.”

He had never said anything like that before. He had barely even let himself think it.

“Well, I don't blame you,” Kashrik said. “I’d rather be a devilclaw than spend my life serving a God who doesn't care about anyone but himself, if he’s even there at all.”

Amrak, feeling quite breathless after his confession, did not answer. So there were people in Kalathan who did not live in the shadow of the Temple. There were people who cared enough about devilclaws to give them a place to sleep, people who were not afraid of the curse. The thought gave him courage, as the knowledge of what he had to do began to settle. He lifted his hand to his neck to touch the thick brown hair that reached to his collar. He would not be sitting down by the fire tonight while Father sharpened the razor. He would find his own path, and what Kashrik had just told him gave him hope that he would not be alone.

While Kashrik plucked and cut, the little pile of smelly entrails on the street beside him growing steadily, Amrak held the sticks, turning them gently, making sure the meat cooked evenly. And when Kashrik announced that the first bird had cooked long enough, took out a little twist of paper from his pocket and sprinkled the blackened shape with salt, Amrak lifted what had once been a fluttering bird up to his face and breathed in the aroma.

“Enjoy!” Kashrik said, holding up his own bird, its legs splayed grotesquely off to each side. “To the lowly dove, cleanser of sins and filler of stomachs!” He took a great, ravenous bite, tearing off the meat, smiling widely through his chewing.

Amrak smiled back, took a breath, and ate.

A slate-grey sky hung heavy over the President James K. Polk Memorial rest area on Interstate 64 in southern Indiana. At the fueling station, eighteen wheelers lined up under bright green lights for diesel and windshield wiper fluid from an army of apathetic attendants. A mother carrying a styrofoam coffee cup emerged from the Kwik Mart, pulling the collar of her neon pink and light purple ski jacket tight around her neck with her free hand and hurrying her two children across the broad expanse of cracked tarmac. A grove of oak trees, damp brown and bare of leaves for months now, peaked above the domed roof of the food court. At the far end of the parking lot, a mountain of exhaust-stained snow towered precariously over a red and yellow dumpster belonging to Solid Waste Disposition Incorporated, Akron, OH. A cacophony of colors and commotion.

Frank eased his Kia into a parking spot and surveyed the scene. He was not like the rest of them, hustling to-and-fro on their way to somewhere else, to grandma’s house for Christmas, perhaps, or home after a work trip in Louisville or Wheeling or Pittsburgh. No. For Frank J. Marone, the President James K. Polk Memorial rest area was the destination.

In front of him, a fifty-foot steel pole held aloft the black and red cowboy hat signage of the Arby’s Corporation, the curved lines of the double-peaked crown and round brim glowed a warm red against the cold of the December day.

He picked up his phone, smiled, stuck his thumb up, and snapped a selfie. Below the image, he typed, “It’s been twelve years since I started this journey. At last, I come face to face with my white whale (or is it a cod?).” He sent it off to his forty-eight thousand-plus followers and then scrolled through his timeline. Back to the beginning, to 2009, the Roy Rogers outside of Toms River that still served the Cordon Bleu Gold, discontinued nationally in 2005. That one had been pretty easy. Just a quick jaunt down the Garden State Parkway. There and back in a short afternoon. Number nine on the list: the McSalmon Fritters, which he'd found at a barely functioning McDonalds outside of Homer, Alaska. That one had required more doing, an online fundraiser and a series of puddle jumpers.

It had started as a lark, the quest for obscure and discontinued fast food items. Something to do. To pass the time. Shits and giggles. After he'd crossed number five or six off the list of twenty-five sandwiches and tenders and salad shakers, though, the quest had taken over his life, become his identity.

Frank set the phone back down on the passenger seat and watched it buzz and ding with congratulatory missives. In front of the Arby’s, a man shuffled back and forth and spoke to himself angrily, a burned-to-the-filter cigarette hanging from the corner of his mouth.

Frank was there to meet a man about a sandwich. Gordon Warmbacher, franchisee of sixteen Arby’s restaurants across the upper Midwest and Great Plains, about the legendary Mahalo King Cod Filet, to be precise. The Mahalo King was the last on his list that included the KFC Turkey Tender, the Burger King Ostrich Deluxe, and Taco Bell’s Cool Ranch Gator Taco, served exclusively in Louisiana and the Florida Panhandle. He had dedicated the last twelve years of his life to tracking these items down and reviewing them for his ever-increasing number of social media fans and fast food aficionados.

Of all the items on the list, the Mahalo King Cod Filet had proven to be the most elusive. Introduced by the Arby’s Corporation at select stores in 2006, sales had badly underperformed expectations. Reviews were initially poor. People had mocked the incongruity of a New England fish served Hawaiian style. The pineapple slices that sat atop the deep-fried filet smothered in traditional Hawaiian huli-huli sauce would, if left for even a few minutes, soak through the sesame seed bun, leaving it soggy and difficult to pick up. Sales of the sandwich were discontinued after only four months, but it had become something of a cult favorite, with a small but devoted fan club dedicated to getting it back on the menu.

There had been tips. Whispers and rumors of rogue Arby's restaurants still serving the sandwich. Frank had followed one dead end lead after another for nearly a year and a half and had been on the brink of giving up when he received a cryptic Direct Message from Gordon. It could be arranged, Gordon said, but Frank would need to be discreet. Details needed to be omitted, a certain degree of anonymity required. Gordon had a lot on the line.

Frank opened his car door and walked briskly toward the Arby’s entrance and past the man with the cigarette, who cursed at Frank under his breath. He entered and looked around. It was mid-afternoon, the quiet time between the lunch and dinner rushes. Brown and tan anti-slip tiling covered the floor in front of a recently-modernized counter manned by three maroon-shirted and bored looking employees. A middle-aged man in thick-rimmed glasses and a mustache waved to him from one of the booths lining the far wall. Gordon stood and extended his hand toward Frank as Frank approached. He smiled broadly. Gordon squeezed Frank's hand firmly and shook once, up and down. The two men slid across the brown vinyl seating across the table from one another.

“It’s a real pleasure to meet you,” Gordon said once they had settled in. “I’m a fan of your work. Been reading your blog since… Oh let’s see. Well, at least a couple of years now.” His accent was upper midwestern. Wisconsin. Or Minnesota, perhaps.

“That’s very kind of you to say.”

Gordon had a fair complexion with pink cheeks. His skin was pockmarked, probably from teenage acne. Despite it, he was handsome. His greying hair was well cut and the tailoring of his linen jacket appeared bespoke. He looked more suited to someplace with tablecloths and waiters with extensive knowledge about wines and cheeses. Frank, in his wrinkled tee shirt and unwashed jeans, felt suddenly underdressed.

“I’ve got my staff working up our order now. Two Mahalo Cod Filet sandwiches, side of waffle fries. What sort of pop do you like to drink?”

“Sprite will be fine. Thank you.”

“Of course. I don’t even know why I asked. I should have known.”

“I know you said you would treat me, but really, you don’t need to do that.”

“Please. Don’t mention it. It’s my pleasure.” He called across the mostly empty restaurant. “Two large Sprites, no ice in mine.” One of the women behind the counter nodded.

Gordon turned back to Frank. A silence fell over the booth. After a moment, Frank spoke.

“How do you keep making it? The Mahalo King. It’s been, what, more than a decade since it was discontinued?” A statement in the form of a question, his voice rising slightly on the last syllable of the final word.

Gordon smiled mischievously. “Amazing, isn’t it. Seems like it was only yesterday. I was just starting out with my first Arby’s back then. Up in Toledo. That was a big year for me. I hate to toot my own horn, but I've come a long way since then."

The woman from behind the counter approached tentatively, put the Sprites on the table, and handed each of them a straw. Gordon stabbed the straw through the perforation on the plastic lid, took a long sip, and then cleared his throat.

“When they announced that they were going to stop putting it on the menu, I bought up as much of the huli-huli sauce as I could. I made calls as far as Texas and California. Got the stuff FedExed to me overnight shipping. Nobody understood why I wanted this stuff. The Mahalo King never sold very well, as I'm sure you know. They were happy for me to take the stuff off their hands." He chuckled. "I’ve still got a few thousand servings left in my warehouse over in Sioux City. The rest I just sort of pull together on my own. The cod and pineapples. Those I get from the grocery store like anyone else would. Of course, the ingredients aren’t exactly the same as they would be if they came through the normal distribution channels, but I think we've done an admirable job recreating it.”

Gordon took another sip of Sprite before continuing.

“What can I say? I just love this sandwich. I couldn’t let it go. Of course, corporate doesn’t approve of me serving it.” He lowered his voice to a whisper. “Which is why I have to be so secretive. It’s a violation of policy. They could take away my franchise license if they find out I’m still serving it off menu.” Gordon winked theatrically.

Frank nodded. “I appreciate that. And don’t worry. I’m being very careful not to give away any specifics.”

Gordon looked around the restaurant. He took his glasses off, fogged them with his breath, pulled a cloth from his pants pockets, wiped the lenses clean. “Ah, here they come now.”

A different server, a young man in an Arby’s baseball cap walked toward them carrying a brown plastic tray. He lowered it onto the table and then turned and walked briskly away.

“Voila,” Gordon said with a flourish of his hand. “I give you the Mahalo King.” He picked up the cardboard basket that contained the sandwich and placed it in front of Frank. “There’s some extra huli-huli. I can’t get enough of the stuff.” He put two little clear plastic containers next to the sandwich. The liquid was thin and jet black.

Frank observed the sandwich. The bun was already soggy from the pineapple slices. The critics had been right about that, he noted. He took out his phone again. Gordon smiled and then leaned his body away from the frame. “There she blows,” Frank typed out, invoking Melville once again. He pressed send and put the phone on the table face down. It immediately started to rattle and shimmy toward the edge. Frank took a deep breath and closed his eyes.

“This is a big moment for you,” Gordon said solemnly.

“Twelve years. Twenty-three thousand miles. Fifty thousand followers," Frank recounted. "Can I ask you, something?"

"Shoot."

"If you were reading my feed and you knew that I was looking for this sandwich, why didn't you call me sooner?"

Gordon smiled. He tore off a bit of waffle fry and put it in his mouth, chewing deliberately. "Well, I supposed I could have done that, but it would have been a little too easy. Don't you think? I didn't want to deprive you of the journey."

Frank opened his eyes and turned his head toward the window. It was starting to snow.

“Have you thought about what you’re going to do next?" Gordon asked. "Now that you've reached the end of your list, I mean."

Frank watched the lights of traffic slide past on the interstate beyond the parked cars and the fifty-foot glowing sign and the fueling station and the tower of dirty snow and the bare oak trees. He thought about the drive home, his one-bedroom apartment with its few pieces of prefabricated Swedish plywood furniture, his job managing logistics for an office supply outlet. He thought about Gordon building his empire of Arby's. Finally, Frank turned back to the man sitting across from him. “I don’t know yet. I guess I’ll need to figure that out.”

Gordon sighed and smiled understandingly. “You’ll have time for that later, I suppose. What's important is that we've got these Mahalo Kings." Gordon picked up his sandwich and held it aloft triumphantly, urging Frank to do the same. "For now, let's just savor the moment."

Dear Winston,

By the time you’re reading this, I will already be a human popsicle. I know you don't support my decision to freeze myself. Still, I want to make you understand it...

Winston Solis held the letter in trembling hands. Hazia’s exuberant penmanship swarmed over several handwritten pages like ants on a mission. There she was, having the last word again. But something about the cursive made Winston’s ribs ache and his breath catch.

It seemed more a piece of her than the sweaters she’d left behind in their townhouse, or the books that still littered the nightstand. He had noticed the previous night, when he returned home, alone, that she hadn’t even bothered to finish the last book.

Of course, there wasn’t time. When the publishing house called, informing her that she’d been selected (his Hazia out of a thousand other writers!), they let her know that her appointment at the cryonics facility would be in two weeks. They didn’t want to give anyone time to get cold feet, Winston thought.

After that, all of their time had gone into preparation—the engaging of lawyers, the freezing of assets, the making of prudent long-term investments, the suspension of personhood. Preparation and argument.

But that was part of the preparation, wasn’t it? Winston thought. They had to disentangle themselves, somehow undoing seven years’ worth of life that had knotted them together. Let it all unravel, or else how could she possibly leave? If she had shown some remorse, some regret about leaving him, Winston may never have let her enter that freezing chamber. He might never have let go of her hand.

“Would you like some time alone, Mr. Solis?”

Winston looked up from the blur of words to find Caroline watching him, concern subduing her features into a soothing stillness. She was Hazia’s agent—the one who had arranged it all, to whom Hazia had entrusted this final letter, and who was now contractually designated as her case manager. She was young, he noted. Maybe even younger than Hazia. It was very plausible she would be here in another thirty years. Winston took some comfort in the logical detour that Caroline’s presence afforded.

“No, that’s not necessary,” Winston said, and found that he was able to face those words on the page as Caroline spun in her chair to face her computer screen. He could hear Hazia’s voice, more measured now than it had been in their arguments. He could almost see her shoulders shudder in a sigh as she sat down to write, pouring all of her feelings into fast strokes of her wrist across a page.

I haven’t been able to make you understand so far. I know I failed in person. I saw that mixture of disdain and regret clouding your face when you’d ask every day, “Why on earth would you want to go through with this scam?”

I’ll give it one more shot, here in writing. I promise I’ve given this serious thought. Here, without further ado, are the reasons I’m freezing myself:

Because I’ve always been a fan of cryonic freezing plots. Think about it: Futurama, Idiocracy, Austin Powers—all of our favorites. There’s the comedy element, yes. A person bumping up awkwardly against the conventions of a new world they don’t understand yet. Imagine me, stepping out onto the street, my eyes nearly blinded by seeing the sun for the first time in decades, and I walk out in my thirty-year-old jeans that are probably cool again, but maybe my color palette is off—I’m wearing muted whites and grays and it turns out the 2050s are all about saturated azure and salmon. I look like a faded old photograph as I walk out into a world that resembles some postmodern adobe mission. Almost immediately I walk in front of a golden hover bus that has to make an abrupt lurch upward to avoid crushing my head. It's pure slapstick. But that’s all surface treatment. Think deeper. Has it ever not worked out for the heroes of these plots? Never. They absorb, in a short span, the great advances that would have seeped slowly and thus invisibly into their lives over the years. But to me they’re not invisible. All of the innovations and absurdities stand out as my mind stretches to absorb them. These time travelers see the world clearly for what it’s become. What a vantage point for an artist! I plan to leverage it into my breakout achievements. I plan to have breakout achievements! Maybe all I need is a different perspective.

Because the world is falling to pieces and I don’t care to be around when it hits the ground and shatters. Sign me up for the aftermath. I’m an optimist. I believe that in a few decades, humanity will have put the world back together. The order of things will be a little jumbled. Maybe so jumbled I can't tell if it's a utopia or a dystopia, and maybe the cracks from the broken places will still be visible. Maybe they’ll be filled with gold. You know that Japanese art where they emphasize scars by highlighting them in gold? I’m Googling it right now. Kintsugi. Maybe that’s how the world will turn out thirty years from now—museums dedicated to antiquated things like racism and poverty and wage slavery, honoring the things that grandparents suffered and overcame. They’re these architectural wonders, all swooping lines and skylights and marble and travertine. Maybe you’ve helped design one! And maybe I can be a docent there. Maybe they’ll invite me to give talks in the gallery on Saturday mornings—the woman who waited tables back in the days when people cooked and ate dead food, together in these things called restaurants.

3D-printed food. Need I say more? Right now they’re 3D printing guns and human capillaries. I believe in a few decades we’ll have 3D printers that cough out sustainable, environmentally responsible steak right onto our biodegradable bamboo plates. Or maybe our plates are made from pieces of the floating Pacific garbage island; we’ve found a productive way to clean it up. Like I said, I’m an optimist. I believe that either we won't have to cook food and do dishes, or else the robots will do it for us, and I am here for it. It’s the great equalizer.

Because I never thought I’d win. I was one of a thousand writers who applied for the honor of being frozen, and writing and publishing their story upon reanimation. You certainly never thought I had a chance. But no hard feelings. That’s what I ultimately wanted to say. I know we both said some heartfelt things before I left. Can we put that behind us?

Winston, you'll be nearly 65 when I thaw out if everything goes according to plan. That would give us enough time for a sweet dystopian romance, especially with future medical advances. I'm not looking forward to my bathroom mirror telling me how long to brush my teeth, but if all this stuff keeps you in good shape while I'm gone, I suppose I'll tolerate the chiding, almost-human voice that encourages me to “go another thirty seconds and don't forget to floss…”

But our dystopian romance—that's an under-exploited sub genre that I'm open to exploring with you. Maybe you'll meet me at the DMV when I go to reactivate my license (there's a place I foresee withstanding the ravages of time!) and we fall in love all over again as the musty vinyl smell of bureaucracy hangs in our hair. Is that dystopian enough? But this room with its tile floors and black stanchions and a dozen bored people sitting around in plastic chairs, sniffing from the decades of dust collected in the upholstered privacy dividers and the now-unfamiliar smell of paper—this microcosm of staunch gloom is our utopia.

I trace my still-nimble finger over the wrinkles that these thirty years have carved into your face, and marvel that I can still see you in your teeth and the lips that curl over them, thinner than before, but still yours. The sparkle in your eyes is a little duller, but you're still looking at me like you used to—not lately so much, but before, early on, when I was still a magical creature to you—that look rekindled by all those years of absence. Maybe that's enough to make it all worthwhile.

So those twelve bored people—at least those who aren’t lost in their VR goggles (I wonder if that leaves anyone?) get a show until the person at the counter clears her throat and calls number 19 a little louder, and I become a legal person again and we step hand-in-hand into the gray sky outside.

“The sun is getting brighter every year,” you tell me. “We’ve really made a lot of progress on the greenhouse layer. Some days you can see some blue.”

And we get inside your electric hover car and glide the familiar-but-wow-the-retail-signs-are-all-so-different and wow-look-at-all-the-trees-they-planted route to our home.

Or maybe not. Maybe the DMV is full of strangers, and I check into a hotel room and look up the thing that’s replaced the thing that’s replaced Facebook—some new window for gazing at other people like creatures in a terrarium, and I hope it’s immersive and lets you smell what they’re cooking for dinner—and I find pictures of your kid graduating college. There’s a hologram of a girl throwing her cap in the air, and she has your teeth and your eyes.

You’ve moved on and found something to make your last thirty years meaningful. Why wouldn’t you? I was frozen, and we’d been basically frozen for a long time before that. So you’ve moved on, but had the decency to maintain a tastefully informative public profile. I look at the date on your latest hologram and notice that it was posted this morning. I wonder if you were thinking of me, of this letter, of this date. But of course it’s about 31 years too late for us.

I figure out the new equivalent of a “like” and leave a tiny digital fingerprint on your life. I’m here, I announce. I see. No hard feelings. And that’s the end of us.

I don’t know which way it will go. That’s entirely up to you now. Probably none of the above. Now that I’ve written it down it’s become fiction, and truth is always stranger anyway.

I’m sure I’ll be wondering about it as the liquid nitrogen wafts in a fog around me and the glycerin joins the blood in my veins. And that’s probably the final reason I’m freezing myself: the wondering. I have not felt wonder in our world for a long time. It was all so predictable—I could just look at a customer and tell you what they were going to order or how well they would tip. You were predictable, with your 9-5 and bedtime and endless, infectious cynicism.

I could have taken a different risk—gotten pregnant or chopped my hair off. There were other ways to avoid the slow suffocation of my creative spirit. But this opportunity came along and stirred me in a way that felt important. I have the chance to be important, my voice amplified by thirty years of silence.

Be happy for me, darling Winston, and let me write my story.

Love Always,

Best-Selling Author Hazia Adam

Winston sat blinking as he took in the last of her message. He took a deep breath and looked up.

“It must be such a shock. Let me know if there’s anything I can do,” Caroline assured him.

He did.

***

For Hazia, thirty years went by in the space of a good night’s sleep. Winston didn’t know whether it was cold and still like an icy planet orbiting the outer ring of its solar system, or whether strange dreams floated through her head—a thirty-year-long fall, an ocean chasing her thirty feet up a steep cliff, a library with 30,000 volumes she had to sort through in the surrounding quiet. But he wondered.

He wondered when he and Caroline hiked to the top of the mountain and they had that perfect view of the forest below, a cool mist rolling over the dense treetops in a way that sent a chill down his spine. He wondered when their daughter was born. Not in that initial moment when his arms received her for the first time and he marveled at her tiny, flat nose, so impossibly tiny and perfect, but later on, when he held her in the dark and quiet, and the slideshow of her potential life rolled through his mind—first steps, a red tricycle, unicorn birthday cakes, a mouth with gaping holes that grown-up teeth would grow to fill, soccer games and talent shows, building tiny model cities together, and then watching her walk away down an aisle in a cap and gown with Caroline’s eyes and his teeth. In that moment he felt like Hazia had written this perfect creature into existence, a final gift to him.

He wondered about Hazia when he went to the DMV to register his new electric car, even though it was not a hover car. He wondered about her while he watched a gray squirrel digging ferociously in the leaf-strewn ground. Wasn’t it also preparing for a long sleep, hiding seeds to fuel its torpor? Only, Hazia was not the squirrel. That was the publishing company, spreading its investments across hundreds of hiding places to hedge an uncertain future. No, Hazia was the nut, stashed away in the frozen soil, waiting for the chance to sprout.

He wondered about her when he bought his first iPhone-compatible smart toilet, and when pieces of their world fell away. It didn't happen as Hazia had imagined, as the sudden shattering of a precious vase. It was more like the slow decay of grout crumbling between tiles. The world was, at most times, completely recognizable. There were no travertine gems memorializing poverty. Winston wondered how her optimism would fare as she took the dirty white bus that still drove on the ground.

It was this thought that almost convinced Winston to accompany Caroline to the cryo storage facility on the date where the gold hologram star had hovered for years and years, always out of reach until now. It would be a big adjustment. She would need a friend.

Winston read his yellowing letter for the ninth time as he thought and thought about it. She was coming back in search of a story. What if he was the character that would drag her new story down?

She would have Caroline, after all. Caroline would be warm and kind as she set Hazia up with her new computer and a temporary lease. And Hazia would, of course, still be herself—the very same 32-year-old, waking up with her zeal and optimism and untamable black curls that he didn’t fully trust himself not to reach out and touch.

He skimmed one thick finger over the faded cursive, and it struck Winston that perhaps he was the only one left to remember that Hazia always began drafting her thoughts on paper. Even thirty years ago, it was a bit eccentric to do one’s writing with their hand, not their fingers.

Winston didn’t need to be her tour guide in the new world, but he could give her a compass.

“No,” he told Caroline that morning as she sipped her coffee across from him at the table. “I’m staying home. Let me know how it goes.” He paused as the food printer dripped hot coffee into his own cup, then slid a large manila envelope toward his wife. “Will you give this to her?”

Winston pictured Hazia tearing into the envelope, pulling out the spiral bound notebook, feeling its pages travel between her fingers, rustling like tiny wings. She would find her paperback novel, the curled grocery receipt saving the same spot it had marked since the nightstand. And his letter. With a familiar ache in his ribs, Winston imagined her thawing for the second time that day as she read his three words: No hard feelings.

The King sat on his throne, legs swinging in the afternoon sun. The wilderness spread out before him — a boy’s paradise of twisting dirt tracks webbed with ancient tree roots, full of shady hollows and secret hideaways. Behind him, the copse thinned until it met the road that would take you back to the village, but before him was the arena of countless battles, the base camp of every perilous expedition, a land of untold adventure. And — for today at least — it was all his.

“Halt!” he shouted. “Who goes there?”

The little girl looked up at the boy sat in the tree. Long before either of them had been born a storm had done its best to uproot it, but the tree was an obstinate one and it had refused to give up its claw-like grip on the earth. Now it was a twisted and gnarled thing, bent over like an old man. It was perfect for climbing and the thickest branch dipped in just the right place to form a seat directly above the path.

“It’s me. Who are you?”

“I’m the King, ain’t I?” The boy puffed up his chest in indignation. “Now — are you friend or foe?”

“Friend or foe?” the girl repeated.

“Yes,” said the King. It had seemed a straightforward enough question.

 “That depends,” said the girl.

There was a rustling in the bushes behind them.

“What’s happening?” a voice said. A chorus of shushes drowned it out.

“No no no.” The King shook his head at the girl. “You’re s’posed to say friend.”

“But what if I say foe?”

“Well,” the King said, fearing that he was losing his grip of the situation, “in that case, everyone jumps out and chases you back to the river.”

There was a groan from the bush and a head popped out. The face was grubby and the hair was full of twigs.

“It ain’t an ambush if you tell them,” it managed to say before a hand reached up and pulled it back under.

“Silence, peasant!” the King shouted, certain at least that shouting things like that was still part of the game, even if other events were quickly running away from him. You had to assert your authority if you wanted to stay King for very long.

Appeased, the bushes were quiet once more.

“Alright then,” said the girl. “Friend.”

“Ah-ha!” the King declared, raising one finger to indicate that the girl had been got. “That’s exactly what a goblin would say!”

“Do I look like a goblin?”

“Well, uh.” The King floundered again. “No, not exactly. But that’s because goblins is the master of disguise, right?”

The bushes rustled in agreement.

“I take it that a goblin would also say that they weren’t, in fact, a goblin?”

“Exactly,” said the King, nodding sagely. This newcomer was catching on quickly.

“Oh dear,” said the girl, all big eyes and innocent expression. “Then it would seem that we are at an impasse.”

The King did not know big words and chose to ignore this.

“Whatever,” he huffed. “You can’t come past here till you prove you’re a good guy. I’m the King so you has to do as I says, and I says no dirty little goblins can come in the village. Even if they are little girls.”

A few more heads were popping up now, craning to see who was there and what the delay was. Generally, this game had less talking and more running around and screaming.

“Oi, Dylan! Knock it off!”

“That’s King Dylan, to you,” Dylan said, turning to face the dissenting bush dweller. It was his squire, otherwise known as Fred Carson, the butcher’s son.

“Just give it up, alright?” his friend said. “She’s not playing with us.”

“Why not?” Dylan turned back to the girl. “You want to play, right? You have to be a goblin though. Everyone’s a goblin, first time they play. You get to hiss at people and do cunning schemes, but you always lose in the end on account of being evil.”

“I’d like that,” the girl said.

“She’s not playing with us,” Fred growled.

Fred was bigger than the rest of them, older too. He may have been on the rotund side, but once he picked up enough momentum it was like having a steamroller after you, and whilst his fingers looked all the world like his father’s pork sausages, they made a mean fist. The children in the bushes glanced back and forth between the two of them, trying to pick a horse to back. There was a general shuffling in Fred’s direction. King Dylan suddenly felt very exposed.

“Why not?” Dylan asked nervously.

“My Dad says not to mix with folk like her,” said Fred. “She’s not one of us.”

“But I’m the King—“

But Fred wasn’t looking at him any more. He was looking at the girl.

“We aren’t playing, Dylan. It’s time for little witches to go back where they came from.”

The girl shrugged and turned around, starting her way back down the path. She didn’t look upset. That somehow made it worse, Dylan thought. Next moment he was falling out of the tree at Fred, yelling at the top of his lungs.

The onlookers weren’t quite sure what to do. Real fighting didn’t happen very often.

“Goblin king?” a bush voice suggested.

“Goblin king!” the cry became, and suddenly everyone had joined the skirmish.

Five minutes later, all squabbles outside of the game were forgotten. The goblins had infiltrated their ranks and there was no time for such trivial matters. It was a good game, although Dylan lost, of course.

***

Her name was Ivy, he found out at school. She lived with her mother in a house on the outskirts of the village. They were not from around here, said Ben Hudson, the grocer's son. They were, it was widely agreed, Bad Sorts. They didn’t come to church any more, which was a telling sign said Lucy, one of the pastor's daughters, and it meant they were certainly heathens.

Ralph Hind, the pub landlord's youngest, said that heathens could do all sorts of black magic, and that Ivy’s mother must have used some black magic to make her husband disappear because no one knew who he was. Ivy, whispered Lily Evesham, the shopkeeper's daughter, didn’t have a father. Arthur Perkins didn’t have a father either, but that was different because he had been killed in a ploughing incident and had gone to live with Jesus. Ivy didn’t have a father because her mother was a witch and a hussy. Those were the words Fred Carson used, and his father was generally considered a reliable source of information. You learnt all sorts, slicing people’s bacon. Not that Ivy’s mother bought any. You couldn’t trust people who didn’t like bacon.

Dylan’s father told him not to go around asking those sort of questions and gave him a thick ear before bedtime. He was not to play with Ivy or talk about her Mother in this house again. They weren’t from around here.

***

It was a few weeks before he saw her again. He was stood daydreaming in the shade, his back up against the rough bark of an oak tree. In the distance, he could hear the squeals and laughter of his friends causing chaos. He nearly jumped out of his skin as she sidled out from behind the tree.

"Good morning, my liege," she said.

"It's just squire today," he sighed. "Tom is King now."

Kings was getting boring. There were whispers that by next week they'd be back to playing pirates. They could steal old bits of wood and rope from their Dad's sheds and the flag from the market square and build a raft to sail down the river like last year, try and beat the record before it sank.

"And how goes the war with the goblins?"

"It's boooring," Dylan pouted. "I'm guarding our base, see? But we're thrashin' 'em so it's dead quiet here."

"This is your base?"

"Yeah." Dylan gestured at the small hollow in the ground behind him, half-hidden by the trees. "And that there's the scone of stone or somethin'. If you have that you win, so I’ve got to stop anyone pinching it."

“Oh,” she said, adjusting her satchel. “Only I like to come and sit here.”

They regarded each other dumbly. Dylan didn’t notice the unasked question floating in the air.

“What’s in the bag?” he asked, when the silence and her dark-eyed stare got too much for him.

“Books,” she said.

“Like... spellbooks?” Dylan shifted his weight slightly.

Ivy tilted her head to one side, face scrunching up as she gave this serious consideration.

“In a way,” she said. She gave nothing else away.

“Where are you from?” he asked.

She pointed back along the track towards the river.

“Up on the hill,” she told him.

“But there’s nothing past the river,” he said, brow furrowing.

“There is,” Ivy said. “There’s my house and Mr Lowe’s fields and Mr Digby’s flock and a few other families.”

“Nothing much,” he conceded, not about to be proven wrong about his own village.

“The whole world’s beyond the river,” Ivy pointed out.

Dylan blinked. The village was the world, all the world that Dylan needed. It was easy to forget about the rest of it, the bits that only existed on maps in geography class or in adventure stories. Here was where all his friends were and where everyone knew who he was and said hello to him on the street. The rest of the world didn’t seem all that important.

“True,” he said. “And you... you’re from there?”

“From... the world?” she looked at him as though he had three heads. “No, I’m from the village. Same as you. Only,” she pointed again, “the other side of the bridge.”

“Just... they say you aren’t from around here. Were you born somewhere else?”

“Oh, yes,” she nodded as though she finally understood his question. “At the hospital.”

Dylan didn’t think that this was what they meant. He tried a different question.

“They say your Mum’s a witch,” he said, knowingly.

“Yes,” she replied.

“You mean...”

“They say that, yes.”

“Oh,” said Dylan. He hadn’t expected her to be so upfront about it. If his mum was a witch, he’d have kept it a secret.

Ivy rocked back and forth on her heels.

“So can I come sit in your base?” she asked at last.

Dylan bit his lip. He looked around, but there was no one except her, looking up at him with her big round eyes and serious expression.

“I guess so,” he gave in. “But you can’t touch the rock.”

“That’s what I normally sit on.”

“Oh.”

If she was sat on the rock, Dylan reasoned, no one could take it. Probably not even Fred could lift the rock if a girl was sat on it. Even a small one from across the river. Really, he was just doing his job if he let her in. She wasn’t playing with them, so it wasn’t like it mattered.

“Alright, then.” He motioned her past him with a conspiratorial nod.

The game carried on in the distance. Dylan dug his hands into his pockets and leant against the tree to wait. Every so often he snuck a glance over his shoulder, keeping a close eye on the witch’s daughter as she read her book of spells.

***

“You’ll miss your tea, boy,” said Mrs Hayes from her front doorway. “Your mother’ll go spare.”

“SorryMrsHayes,” Dylan said in one breath, lowering his head and pumping his arms furiously as he scuttled home.

He hurried past the familiar stone cottages with their carefully pruned gardens, up onto the high street and through the market square. He rounded the corner at the butcher's shop, almost colliding with Mrs Richardson coming the other way.

“Evening, Dylan,” she said. “How’s your mother?”

“FineMrsRichardson,” he told her, jogging backwards as he spoke to her. His father worked for her husband.

“Hurry along, young man,” she waved him away.

“GoodbyeMrsRichardson!”

He turned and skipped his way into a full canter. Curtains twitched as he ran past. The sun was quickly disappearing behind the church spire. He could see his house now, his mother stood at the gate tapping her foot, apron still tied around her waist.

***

It wasn’t pirates the following week. Everyone still wanted to play Kings. Someone had borrowed their mother's mop so they could try jousting, but it had been a bit one-sided, what with only the one mop. After a while, Dylan had grown bored and wandered off. No one seemed to notice.

He found himself coming by the hollow without knowing why. Ivy was there, head stuck in a book.

“Whatcha reading?” he asked.

“A book,” she said, then noticed that he seemed to be expecting more from her. “It’s about a boy on a desert island.”

“I thought you said they were spellbooks?”

“Oh, they’re magic alright. You can go anywhere with a book. Anywhere at all, without moving.”

That did sound like witchcraft.

“Are there pirates?” he asked.

“I don’t know,” she said. “I haven’t finished it yet.”

“Mind if I sit with you?”

Ivy shrugged. He peered over her shoulder until eventually she sighed and passed the book over to show him the pictures. Palm trees and beaches. And pirates. Witch’s books have pirates.

***

Some of the boys were going to go up to the cottage on the hill. It was for a dare. Someone’s brother had seen all kinds of terrifying things in there — bubbling cauldrons and demon statues with glowing red eyes and severed hands wrapped in spiders webs. Ivy’s mother was a black widow, and she worshipped the devil. They were going to take eggs to throw at the windows.

Dylan thought it all sounded quite unlikely. Ivy seemed quite nice, for a witch’s daughter. It wasn’t as though they were hurting anyone. He told them what he thought about the whole thing.

He went home with a black eye. He never told his parents who did it, but everyone in the village knew.

***

“Been anywhere good?”

Ivy looked up from her book, her face as unreadable as ever. He came here every day after school now. That was where she usually was. Some of the boys had tried to tell her that she couldn’t have a spot in the forest, that it wasn’t her forest to have, but Dylan had seen them off. He wasn’t talking to Fred anymore.

“To the moon,” she said. “And then a thousand leagues under the sea.”

“So where next?”

“Verona,” she said. “You won’t like this one.”

“Oh.” He scratched his head. “What happened to the one about the giant? You were just getting to the good part.”

“I threw it away,” said Ivy, turning the page.

“Why?”

She sighed. Closed the book.

“It got muddy. Fell apart.”

“Who did it?” he asked, fists balling as he rose to his feet.

“It doesn’t matter.”

“It does. I’ll fight them for you.”

She stood in front of him, pushed his arms back down to his sides.

“There’s no point fighting,” she said. “It won’t change their minds.”

She met his stare. There was a fierce calm there. If the village had eyes, they would look like that. Unyielding. Unmoving. All-knowing. Dylan looked away first.

“Aren’t you lonely?” he asked.

“No.” She looked confused. “You’re here.”

And then he bent down and planted his lips on her cheek, just for a second. Ivy blushed, pressed a hand to her cheek.

The witch’s daughter smiled.

***

Dylan felt the stares as he walked back through the village. Old Mrs Hayes sat in her doorway as always, rocking on her chair as she knitted, surveying her street. Her father had lived in that house, and his father before his, back as far as anyone could remember. She would die in that house.

“Evening, boy,” she said.

He could feel her eyes on him, as though she could see Ivy on his hands and on his lips. He mumbled some reply, turning red as he spoke.

“Strange child,” she said, though he could still hear her. Half the village probably heard. “He’d do well to stay away from that one.”

***

Ivy moved away a few months later. Her mother had given in to the other adults’ barely concealed contempt and taken a job somewhere else. No one would tell him where.

Ivy was right — you couldn’t fight the village. Her mother had lived here for eight years, Ivy’s whole lifetime. She had tried resolutely to plant her roots, but the earth here was poison to newcomers, too full of ancient roots that stretched back for a hundred years without ever touching the outside world. No one understood where Ivy’s mother had come from or the life she had had, and no one cared to find out either. They weren’t from around here. Ivy’s family was different and that was that. Ivy had shown him the world, and now she had gone out into it, the only place she could belong.

Eventually, he stopped going to the hollow to see if she had somehow come back, returned to the other boys. People started smiling at him again when he walked down the street, but they didn’t look as friendly any more. What once had been comforting now seemed stifling. They knew every inch of him, every secret. They couldn’t bear not knowing someone, of not having the clout to tell someone who they ought to be.

Within a few weeks, his friends had forgotten the summer he had spent with Ivy and all was forgiven. They played cops and robbers, and cowboys and Indians, but it wasn’t the same.

Nothing was ever quite the same.
